BHUMIKA RAJ
Transportation Planner
Page 1 of 4
Experience WSP
2 years and 10 months
EDUCATION
Undergrad in Civil
Engineering (Major in
Construction
Management)
CEPT University, India
Master’s in City and
Regional Planning
Rutgers University, New
Jersey
Areas of Practice
Transit & Rail Service
Planning
Statewide / Regional
Planning (TIP / STIP)
Grant & Program Support
Workflow Automation
(Microsoft Power
Platform)
Project Management
Transit Wayfinding
Data Analysis
Technical Skills
ArcGIS
Remix
Stata
Power BI
Power Automate
MS Project
CAREER SUMMARY
Ms. Raj is a transportation planner with undergraduate in Civil Engineering. She has
experience on Real estate projects, project, and stakeholder coordination of various
projects nationally and internationally. She interned with Gateway Program including
projects like Penn station expansion, Hudson Tunnel and Harrison Track project.
Further she also interned on Mumbai Metro line 3, one of the first underground metro
project for the state of Maharashtra, India. She assisted with preparation of internal
real estate Strategic plan for Amtrak’s Gateway Program, property acquisition for
Penn station Expansion project and PMP for Hudson Tunnel. She has also worked in
areas of active transportation projects, micro transit services, and mobility as a service
(Maas) concept for Jersey City. Currently Ms Raj is an embedded consultant at
Maryland Transit Administration and works with WSP supporting various clients
across Mid-Atlantic.
WSP EXPERIENCE
MTA- Maryland Transit Administration, Office of Statewide Planning- Part-time
Embedded Consultant (ongoing)
Ms. Raj serves as Transit Planner in the Office of Statewide Planning at MTA,
specializing in regional planning initiatives and the MARC Commuter Rail Line in
Maryland.
Regional Planning Tasks (Statewide): Works directly with Chief of
Strategic Planning at MTA Maryland Office of Statewide Planning to perform
TIP, STIP Amendments, Clearing house reviews, Correspondence responses
on behalf of Governor’s office and other tasks.
Provides key support to MTA’s Office of Statewide Planning for updating
their briefing books and information on projects to be included in CTP-
Consolidated Transportation Plan Tour MDOT Consolidate Transportation
Plan which are submitted to governor and state transportations secretary,
and used in public meetings and tours.
Prepared Service Proposals Evaluating route for Commuter Bus Service
Proposals for Maryland, which were submitted to MTA transportation
secretary for next steps.
Silver Spring Turnback Feasibility Study ($1 Mil): PM for the project
which is a crucial enabling project of MARC Growth and Transformation Plan
(G&T)MARC Growth and Transformation Plan, a key plan to improve MARC
service in State of Maryland
Silver Spring turnback 15% Design ($3Mil) PM for the project which is a
crucial enabling project of MARC G&T, a key plan to improve MARC service in
State of Maryland. MARC G&T Initial Investment Projects
MARC Wayfinding Manual and Signage Report: Project Manager for the
Wayfinding initiative in state of Maryland across three MARC (42 Stations)-
Maryland Area Rail Commuter lines, including development of GIS Survey
forms, GIS Inventory for data storage, comprehensive wayfinding booklets,
and MARC signage manuals. Helping clients do it in-house has helped save
thousands of dollars and build institutional capability.

-- 1 of 4 --

BHUMIKA RAJ
Transportation Planner
Page 2 of 4
Veriato (Beginner level)
Professional Affiliations
Member YPT-Young
Professionals in
Transportation
(Board Member- Director of
Inter-Chapter Affairs and
Membership YPT-2024)
____________________
Fed State Partnership Grant: Coordinated and led the efforts of the FSP Grant
for MTA and City of Rockville for Rockville and Brunswick station pedestrian
improvement directly reporting to Director of Statewide Planning at MTA.
Public Comment Analysis Tool: Leading the Public Comment Tool App, for
large scale projects which would automate the process of extraction,
response, documentation, and sentiment analysis for comments received by
public instead of relying on third party tools saving costs and managing
data’s confidentiality.
Microsoft Power Platform Automation: Leads automation of the
clearinghouse process and Comprehensive Plan reviews using Microsoft
Power Automate tool to streamline operational workflows. Reducing time
significantly by 70%.
FEMA- Federal Emergency Management Association
Presented the AI Ordinance tool to FEMA (700 Mil JV) Deputy Branch chief for Mid-
Atlantic region-this is a first of a kind tool to automate the process of hundreds of
ordinances received annually and would help reduce time by 50% once deployed.
Leading the effort to submit the design documentation scope for the Project, next
step is execution of the design document.
SJTPO-Southern Jersey Transportation Planning Organization, TIP Development
(New Jersey)
Ms. Raj helped update the TIP-Transportation Improvement Plan for SJTPO, prepared
a TIP Peer comparison memo for analysis across four different agencies, and created
a County one-pager for public meetings.
MTA Unhoused Study Project (MTA, Baltimore)
Ms. Raj worked with MTA in preparation for an internal report addressing
homelessness within MTA Assets. Tasks included Data Collection and Analysis,
Literature review, Coordination with internal MTA departments and preparing a
comprehensive report as deliverable.
East Side Transportation Plan (City of Fort Worth, Fort Worth Texas)
Ms. Raj worked with the City of Fort Worth on their east side transportation plan for
providing a Gentrification Impact Study. The study is to evaluate the potential of high-
capacity transit, improvements for other transit and transportation facilities in the
area, and to support economic development and the City’s land use policies. The study
aims to create pedestrian solutions and build consensus for future improvements.
Safety Risk Assessment Plan, Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority
(WMATA), Washington DC, Transportation Planner (2023)
Ms. Raj served as a Transportation Planner and Data Analyst for a safety risk
assessment plan at WMATA, contributing to the development of the SMS Safety Risk
Management System. The WSP Team worked with subconsultants to deliver the
project. The project received the ACEC Metro Washington Award 2023.
PREVIOUS EXPERIENCE:

-- 2 of 4 --

BHUMIKA RAJ
Transportation Planner
Page 3 of 4
− Amtrak, Gateway Program Management Intern Manhattan, New York
Amtrak Gateway Program Ms. Raj collected data and coordinated with the
senior director of portfolio to conduct the 8-hour workshop on the project
delivery methodology of the Harrison Fourth Track project in New Jersey with
project and program managers. Documented the methodology for the team
that identified the suitable design-bid-build contract for the project to enter
the next engineering phase. The process also provided credibility for
justifying the selected delivery type applying for the FTA ‘s CRISI funding
program.
Calculated the transfer taxes for more than one hundred properties
needed for surface easements of the Penn Station Expansion Project by
leveraging Zola to map parcels and lots in New York's Midtown
Manhattan, which was then submitted to the New York City Council for
decision-making.
Attended the weekly meetings and prepared notes for real estate
strategic documents with the senior director of portfolio for property
acquisitions strategy and Empire State Development for a general project
plan for the redevelopment of Midtown Manhattan in conjunction with
the Penn Station Expansion Project.
Coordinated with the gateway program manager for daily tasks;
memorandum writing; and weekly meetings with subconsultants and
stakeholders. Prepared (RACI) responsibility, accountability, consultancy,
and information matrix for all active projects and assisted in SharePoint
design and management.
Formulated lessons learned logs for all six projects under the Gateway
Program to identify major risks to avoid in the different project phases
and to celebrate success scenarios deriving insights from the lessons
learned report for the Moynihan Train Hall Construction Project.
⎯ Leveraging Value Capture Techniques in Freights and Ports, New
York, and New Jersey: (Pilot Bus Study by Texas A&M) Ms. Raj
conducted the literature review and provided suitable recommendations
building upon the Freight NYC Plan by NYCEDC. Analyzed the case study
of Texas (NBTA) and recommended alternate delivery model for NYCDOT
to capture the value of public transportation– Using SELECT Bus service/
Public transportation for last mile delivery of goods from warehouses to
reduce congestion in Midtown Manhattan.
⎯ Mobility Hub Identification along Hudson Bergen Light Rail- Jersey
City, New Jersey Ms. Raj led the research and proposal model for
implementing mobility as a service for the Jersey City Council. Reviewed
the existing report and filled in the gaps using national and global case
studies for micro-transit services and funding mechanism models to
improve its efficiency and scalability and make it more equitable. She used
system thinking to create a diagram identifying leverage points, impacted
areas, and ideas, which she presented to the Jersey City Council.

-- 3 of 4 --

BHUMIKA RAJ
Transportation Planner
Page 4 of 4
⎯ Civil Engineering Intern, Mumbai Metro Line 3, Maharashtra, India
Mumbai Metro Line 3 Ms. Raj learned on-site and administrative aspects
of the functioning of the metro from the client as well as the contractor's
perspective and prepared a detailed report of 150 pages as part of the
curriculum. Prepared in-depth feasibility report of the project's corridor
and alignment study. She prepared reports on resource scheduling, value
engineering, cost-benefit analysis, quantity estimation, contract
management, project delay, factor analysis, environmental impact
assessment, and socioeconomic report study.
Visited the construction site every week as part of the curriculum report.
She evaluated construction methodologies, including New Austrian
Tunneling Method, cut and cover, concreting, reinforcement, and
formwork activities in terms of design quality, safety, productivity, cost,
and time cycle analysis.

-- 4 of 4 --

